Opening Statement –

LEADER –  
Good evening everyone - before we get started, I’d ask that you all please silence, or turn off your cell phones. 

PAUSE

Welcome, and thank you for joining us at our  (Name of weekday) (Location) Romans12two Basecamp! Romans12two is a fellowship community of men committed to breaking the cycle of addiction and trauma through faith-based healing and anti-trafficking initiatives. As the name “Romans12two” suggests – this is a Christian-affiliated ministry based on the Good News of Jesus Christ, who offers us redemption regardless of how bad we think we are, and based on the proven methods of our partner faith-based parachurch ministries across the world.
As we begin, let’s go around the circle and introduce ourselves to the rest of the group…

LEADER STARTS BY INTRODUCING THEMSELVES BY THEIR NAME… EVERYTIME SOMEONE INTRODUCES THEMSELVES, EVERYONE ELSE CAN SAY “HI _____”
Before we begin, are there any newcomers tonight? (Leader identifies newcomers, and asks them to introduce themselves by stating their first name)
(If there are newcomers, language to newcomer in brown) – We want to thank you so much for coming tonight, we know the courage it takes walking into these rooms for the first time. All of us in this room were in your shoes at one time… and as a token of our gratitude, we’d like to give you the Romans12two handbook as a gift.
So you’re aware - Romans12two basecamps are places where we can hear the message of the gospel through the avenue of recovery, and share about our own struggles with people who are like us, and who understand us.
Meetings are the heart of Romans12two - They’re where we fellowship as Christ commands, where we share our stories, where we learn from others, where we press into loving accountability, and meetings are a place where the Holy Spirit sanctifies, convicts, and comforts us. 
We suggest attending at least six meetings before deciding whether Romans12two Basecamps are a good fit for you.

As we start tonight – let us open by quoting Romans 12:2 together, followed by a moment of silence… if you do not know it, please feel free to listen.
Leader -“ROMANS 12:2”
Everyone - Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. (ESV)
Now, we ask that you take a moment to meditate on this scripture, and ask God to make it a reality in your life.
LEADER PAUSES FOR AT LEAST 60 SECONDS TO GIVE EVERYONE AN OPPORTUNITY TO MEDITATE ON ROMANS 12:2

Leader – “Thank you for joining me in a moment of silence. Here in Romans12two, we believe that we all have been conformed to this world. To be conformed to this world means to let sin and culture shape our minds, our desires, and our behaviors. Scripture tells us in (1 John 2:15–16)-  ‘Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride of life—is not from the Father but is from the world’). Conformity to the world leads us into selfishness, lust, and brokenness. Our addiction is evidence of our conformity to the world.

However, we are not without hope. When we believe that Jesus Christ died for ALL our sins on the cross, AND we believe that He rose from the dead three days after his death – conquering the power of death and sin with His resurrection… then we take our first step into freedom. When we truly trust in these two things – God gives us the Holy Spirit to dwell within us. We believe that true transformation comes not through willpower alone, but through surrender to Jesus, and the renewing work of the Holy Spirit.
And when we say “transformation” – we don’t mean simple behavior modification, but rather - Transformation means stepping into the abundant life that Jesus promises all believers —which is a life marked not by shame and bondage, but by joy, peace, purity, and freedom in Him.

Do these sound like extravagant promises?”
Everyone – “We think not.”
Leader – “In fact, they are actively being fulfilled among us - sometimes slowly, and sometimes quickly. 

As we pursue this transformation that only God can bring – we are reminded of the main principles that must be present… these principles are explained in a simple acronym that the Romans12two ministry refers to as POPS.
We use POPS as a helpful guide as we each walk in community towards freedom… 

LEADER ASKS SOMEONE EXPERIENCED TO SHARE WHAT POPS IS - THIS PERSON SHOULD ALREADY HAVE THE POPS SCRIPT IN FRONT OF THEM TO START THE BASECAMP
P.Plank – this means we begin with ourselves, and we take responsibility for our own actions - taking the plank out of our own eye before addressing the speck in our brother’s (Matthew 7:3–5).
O.Obedience – this means we submit daily to God’s Word and His Spirit, walking in holiness instead of our own way (John 14:15).
P.Proactive – this means we take intentional steps to guard our hearts, pursue accountability, and live in the freedom that Christ has already purchased on our behalf (Galatians 5:1).
S.Sword - This means we take up the Sword of the Spirit - which is the Word of God - by reading, studying, meditating on, and memorizing scripture… this enables us to renew our minds and allows us to take an offensive position against the enemy and his lies! (Ephesians 6:17).

LEADER PICKS BACK UP FROM HERE
As we move into the “Check-in” portion of the night, we ask that all participants use this POPS acronym to guide the content of their check-in. And we also ask that you adhere to the 5 Meeting Guidelines, which are…
1. Adults Only: All participants must be 18 years or older. – Is there anyone here under the age of 18? (Leader dismisses any participants under the age of 18)
2. Plank 1st: We use the words ‘I’ or ‘we’ instead of ‘you’ when sharing about our recovery, and we address our sharing to the whole group, not to one or more individuals.
3. Be Honest with Discernment: We expect all participants to be honest AND factual in their check-ins, but we ask that you avoid mentioning specific names or places associated with our acting out behavior… also, please avoid graphic or explicit details of sexual behavior that might trigger others that are here, or details that might present others with new avenues or ideas for pursuing sexual behavior. (Provide an example of what a healthy disclosure looks like). (If a participant goes too far with details, I will tell you to stop… this needs to be added.)
4. No Cross-talk: There is to be no cross-talk (no interrupting, commenting, or side conversations) and no advice-giving unless asked. This is not a place to fix one another—it is a place to share, listen, and to be known… However, as a participant, we DO invite you to thank those who share, and continue to encourage one another outside these walls.
5. Confidentiality: Everything shared here stays here. Confidentiality is essential to creating a safe and trustworthy environment. However, there are a few situations where we are legally and morally required to report what is shared. This includes(but not limited to):
    -Any information involving the abuse, neglect, or endangerment of a minor
    -Any threats of serious harm to yourself or others
    -Any disclosure of ongoing criminal activity that legally must be reported
    -Or situations where someone is in immediate danger
  Outside of these exceptions, what you share stays in this room.

If we all agree to these guidelines – let us say “Amen.”
Everyone – “Amen.”
Leadership – “Because we are all in agreement, we can begin the check-in portion of the night. And just for everyone’s awareness - A check-in is simply a brief snapshot of your week - sharing both the highlights and the struggles. We do check-ins so others can know us more deeply (as Christ calls us to be known), and so we can grow in recognizing our own patterns, triggers, struggles, and the challenges we often face in recovery. During this check-in time, we embrace another acronym, which is known as GBUB… which stands for Good, Bad, Ugly, Beautiful.This acronym is an acknowledgement that check-ins come in all shapes and sizes - and include raw emotion as we recap moments of temptation, victories, relapses, and other significant moments that God is using to reveal truth to us, as we walk in recovery. 
We have (amount of time) total for check-ins, and everyone will have (amount of time) for their own check-in. When you begin your check-in, please start by telling us your name. A when you’ve reached the time limit for your check-in, an alarm will ring, and we ask that you, respectfully, wrap up your check-in to provide others the time they need to share as well. Can we have someone volunteer to keep time?”

CHECK-INs begin:
(Leader finds volunteer, or they volunteer themselves, practice being the greatest servants and/or leading from a plank 1st example)

Leader signals that we are out of time for checkins
Leader - “Our check-in time has come to a close, and I want to thank everyone who shared tonight. Allow me to remind each of you that your check-in is part of the ongoing, refining work of sanctification. As Christians - we’d love for our growth to be a clean, upward line, but we know real life isn’t like that. So instead, we learn to trust that God uses every season — the highs and the lows — as the pathway to peace. Just as Jesus embraced both joy and suffering, we can accept the full journey, knowing He is with us in every part of it.

LEADER TRANSITIONS TO TEACHING/VISION CAST
Following our check-ins - we’ll now move into the teaching and vision-casting portion of the night. Here in our basecamps, teaching and vision-casting is a time where a long-standing basecamp leader or participant gets to share about a core tool of Romans12two, OR a piece of scripture - that has helped them in their own recovery and sanctification journey. During this time, we get to hear from where they see God has brought them, what He is doing in their lives now, and where He can, and will, take them. This is a means of casting vision for participants by sharing hope derived from personal experience within the Romans12two community.

AFTER TEACHING AND VC ARE FINISHED…
CLOSING STATEMENTS - 
Following these check-ins and our teaching and vision-casting - we want to make sure every participant has community - not only within our basecamp meetings, but also outside these walls. So, with that in mind - I’ll now pass around the phone book for this basecamp. As this phone book is passed around, you’ll find the phone numbers of other Basecamp members… please feel free to take a picture of the phone book, and add your phone number if it’s not there. The reason for this phone book is simple - recovery and sanctification take work, and they absolutely require community and interdependence. If sobriety was simply achieved by coming to a meeting once a week - addiction wouldn’t exist.

As we state in our handbook - recovery requires taking responsibility for our actions, being supported by community, it requires the recognition of destructive thought patterns that have informed our addiction, and it requires the restoration of our minds and beliefs. Make no mistake - all of these things require other people. 
For this very reason, we strongly encourage Basecamp participants to…

-Check in with the men in this phone book throughout the week, and meet in person for 1:1’s. However, know that these phone check-ins and 1:1’s aren’t about using others to simply offload your junk — it’s also about serving one another by listening attentively, asking thoughtful questions, and showing up for each other.
By adding your name and number to the phone book, you’re not just giving leaders permission to call you — you’re making a commitment. You’re saying, ‘I commit to reaching out to other men, and I’m willing to receive support, encouragement, and accountability from them as well.’ This mutual investment is part of what makes this community so strong.

-We strongly encourage Basecamp participants to actively get plugged into the Romans12two community - attending Romans12two fellowship events when you can, and leveraging Romans12two tools. It’s in these spaces where you’ll learn how to…
  -Live your life in the light — which means learning to be radically open about temptation, struggle, sin, or even victories — so that others can walk with you, pray with you, and celebrate with you.
  -It’s where you’ll learn how trauma has informed your addiction
  -It’s where you’ll have breakthrough moments - and where God and others will help you identify destructive beliefs and thought-patterns
  -And finally, it’s where God will begin to restore your mind - replacing sin and brokenness with joy and freedom in Him.
  
WAIT FOR PHONE BOOK TO COME BACK AROUND BEFORE PROCEEDING
As we continue our time together, we’re now going to pass around the contribution bag. Please note that giving is completely voluntary, and know that there is no pressure or expectation to contribute — especially for newcomers. Your presence here is already a gift. If you choose to give, we’re grateful. If you’re not in a place to do that today, we’re grateful that you’re here.

LEADER BEGINS TO PASS AROUND CONTRIBUTION BAG
However, because Romans12two is a donor-supported ministry, we are financially sustained by our members and the community we serve, rather than governmental grants or denominational funding. Because of this, we ask Basecamp participants to consider making a contribution to Romans12two. You can make a contribution by placing cash in the contribution bag, scanning the Romans12two QR code, or by Venmoing the Romans12two account listed on the outside of the bag.
Any donations collected help provide ongoing training, counseling, coaching, and spiritual direction for our Basecamp leaders. This investment allows them to show up healthy, self-aware, and equipped with practical tools to help participants navigate their own recovery journey, without participants having to carry that cost themselves. Contributions also support group-related expenses — such as purchasing Basecamp materials - like sobriety chips and handbooks, helping to cover rent for our meeting facilities, and funding Romans12two fellowship activities that build community and connection.

WAIT FOR COLLECTION BAG TO COME BACK AROUND BEFORE PROCEEDING
As we move on - the next portion of our basecamp is centered around celebrating key milestones in our recovery journey, specifically focusing on sustained sobriety. Within Romans12two - we define sobriety as abstaining from the following behaviors - 

-Watching pornography
-Masturbation
-And any sexual behavior with people who are not our wives

We believe it’s important to recognize members based on sustained sobriety - not to celebrate behavior modification, but rather - to celebrate sanctification and the renewal of our minds. As we grow in these things, we begin to live out the paradox of the Gospel—dying to ourselves and offering our lives as a living sacrifice to God—while becoming increasingly filled with joy and peace. This is why we celebrate.

So with that - 
Is there anyone who has hit a yearly milestone in their sobriety?
Participant stands up, collects chip, and is given applause by the rest of the participants
Every time someone claims a chip (except the Day 1 chip) the leader or chip distributor asks them “Can you share a few words about what’s been helpful in your recovery?”
Is there anyone who has hit 18 (what’s the significance of this number?) months of sobriety?
One Year?
Nine months?
Six Months?
Three months?
Two months?
One month?
And the Day 1 chip - which represents a desire to repent of our sin, turn and trust Jesus, and a desire to get back up and keep fighting!

Before we conclude tonight’s basecamp meeting - do we have any volunteers to lead next week’s meeting?
Leader identifies anyone who has raised their hand. Leader needs to make sure that volunteer gets the “bag” that same night, or gives it to them before the start of next week’s basecamp meeting.

Now that we’ve celebrated these milestones and victories in Christ, it’s time for us to conclude this Basecamp meeting. As we depart, let us close with the Serenity prayer first, and then, a benediction…

God, grant us the serenity
to accept the things we cannot change; 
courage to change the things we can; 
and wisdom to know the difference.
Living one day at a time; 
enjoying one moment at a time; 
accepting hardships as the pathway to peace; 
taking, as Jesus did, this sinful world
as it is, not as we would have it; 
trusting that He will make all things right
if we surrender to His Will; 
So that we may be reasonably happy in this life
and supremely happy with Him forever in the next. 
Amen.

And now for the Romans12two Benediction, please stand with me - 
EVERYONE STANDS
May the Lord bless you and keep you, 
May He cause His Face to shine upon you and bring you Peace.  
May we share the Good News of Christ from a PLANK perspective, 
May we take every thought captive to make IT OBEDIENT to Christ,
May we live PROACTIVELY for our Savior, pointing our SWORDS at our True Enemy, 
All while being transformed from one degree of glory to another, into the Image of Christ Jesus… 

And all God’s people said..

Everyone - “AMEN”
